
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# Visualising High-Dimensional Data Tutorial

## Professor Di Cook

### Event Description

This workshop will focus on parts A and B, and if time allows we will
venture into high dimensions, part C:

A. Review basic visualisation and inference with graphics: This part
covers making plots using the grammar of graphics and how this fits into
statistical inference. We will use the packages ggplot2 and nullabor.

B. Plotting multiple dimensions in a single static plot, adding
interaction: The building blocks to viewing high-dimensions are
generalised pairs plots and parallel coordinate plots, available in the
R package GGally. There are many variations and options that will be
discussed, along with making these interactive with the plotly package.

C. Using dynamic plots (tours) to examine models in the data space,
beyond 3D: This part will cover the use of tours to examine multivariate
spaces, in relation to dimension reduction techniques like principal
component analysis and t-SNE, supervised and unsupervised classification
models. We will also examine high-dimension, low-sample size problems.
The tourr and spinifex packages will be used.

The workshop is interactive, bring your laptop and work along with the
instructor, and do challenge exercises.

Materials are designed for an intermediate audience, users who are
familiar with R, basic visualisation and tidyverse tools, and who would
like to improve their knowledge about data visualisation.

### Biography

Dianne Cook is Professor of Business Analytics at Monash University in
Melbourne, Australia. She is a world leader in data visualisation,
especially the visualisation of high-dimensional data using tours with
low dimensional projections, and projection pursuit. She is currently
focussing on bridging the gap between exploratory graphics an
statistical inference. Di is a Fellow of the American Statistical
Association, was recently the editor of the Journal of Computational and
Graphical Statistics, and has been elected as an Ordinary Member of the
R Foundation. Several of her students have won the prestigious American
Statistical Association John Chambers Software Award, including Hadley
Wickham, Yihui Xie, Carson Sievert, and most recently, Monash student
Earo Wang.
