
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# Literate Projecting

## Alison Hill (RStudio)

### The webcast recording can be found here: <https://webcast.csiro.au/#/webcasts/literateprojecting>.

### Literate Projecting

“Literate programming” is an approach to writing software programs that
weaves together the source code and documentation at the time of
creation. The idea is to create programs that are easier for users to
understand. But they are also easier for programmers to work on and
maintain. In this talk, I will describe how data scientists can be
inspired by this programming approach and start what I refer to as
“literate projecting.” Literate projects are not only more pleasant to
work on – they are also easier for others to discover and explore. In my
experiences as a researcher and now a data scientist at RStudio, I’ve
had the pleasure to work on many literate projects, and I’ve felt the
pain of working on illiterate ones too. What is the difference? What are
the benefits? Based on my experiences, I’ll share good literate
projecting practices that have the potential to shift your mindset and
reshape your workflow.

### Biography

Alison Hill is a Data Scientist & Professional Educator on the RStudio
Education team, whose mission is to train the next million R users
globally. She received her PhD in psychology and quantitative methods
from Vanderbilt University. Alison is an international keynote speaker,
and regularly leads workshops and develops online learning materials on
topics like reproducible research, machine learning, and data
visualization. She lives in Portland, Oregon with her husband and young
daughter.
